[ Music ]
>> Regina Meredith: Remote
viewing, time travel,
telekinesis, these are all
abilities that were accessible
to today's guest, Andrew
Bassagio, from a very young age.
Because of his father's
professional position Andrew
became the focus of attention,
his abilities tapped
for military use.
What he has seen is far beyond
the imagination of most of us.
Yet he sees the beauty
in all of it.
And I'm so happy to
finally meet you.
I first heard of your
work about seven years ago
through a mutual contact.
And here we are finally.
It takes a while to
manifest sometimes,
although theoretically I guess
you could have jumped right
to it or I could
have jumped back.
>> Andrew Bassagio: It's
good to be with you, Regina.
>> Regina: Yes.
Let's just, with your story
because we have only an hour,
and this really could take hours
to tell, let's start with you
from a very young age, and then
move into the very early years
by the age of six of your
participation in some
of these now known experiments.
So they were very deeply
hidden until recently.
>> Bassagio: Well, as a young
child I certainly had a sense
of having been reincarnated
from previous lives.
I certainly remembered a
number of my past lives.
I was demonstrating
special abilities.
For example, at our
home in Morris Plains,
New Jersey my father had
witnessed me levitating some
of my small toys in one incident
before I entered kindergarten
at age four at a local
elementary school.
I was often going down to
our cellar at our house
in Morris Plains where my
dad had a carpentry shop
and completing his thoughts.
So I had I would say
some expanded awareness.
And I also was not aware of
things that I couldn't do.
In other words I had the
ability to achieve some things
such as read somebody's thoughts
or cause small objects to hover
above the floor simply
because I had the intent
and the understanding
that I could do so.
I wasn't putting
limits on myself.
And I think that's one of the
reasons why I was selected
for DARPA's Project Pegasus
beginning in the fall of 1969
when I was entering
the third grade.
>> Regina: Let's talk
about the training of you
and the other very young
people that were there.
And let's start out with some
of the really simple things
like the card games and such,
just start identifying
who was who.
>> Bassagio: Well, we know
under Project Talent beginning
in the late 1950s when Admiral
Rickover essentially set
as a national goal
identifying young Americans
of exceptional intellectual,
psychic and leadership ability.
That there was really a national
screening process going on.
In fact, many of your viewers
will remember that five
and a half days of
testing, we were even coming
in on Saturday mornings to
complete that national exam.
That was the result of
Project Talent trying
to find young people that they
could work with, for example,
on secret defense and
intelligence projects.
I was one of them identified.
And so in the fall of
1969, a couple months
after the lunar landing
of July 1969, I was placed
in a learning lab at
my elementary school
which was Mountview Road School
in Morris Plains, New Jersey.
And we were immediately involved
in a set of academic exercises
in speed learning
and different things
that the intelligence
community would identify
as alpha intelligence training,
the ability to acquire
information very rapidly,
to understand what we were
perceiving, to memorize it,
to report it back to
other team members.
And that was going on right
from the very beginning
with psychic training
where the children
who were performing well
in the psychic games we were
playing were being retained
in the program.
And those who were
not performing
so well were being dismissed
from the learning lab.
So I remember the first game
that we were playing was a
game called concentration
where the special educator in
the learning lab would select 1
out of 52 standard playing
cards and look at it
and understand what card it was,
and place it to her forehead
and begin concentrating
on what card it was.
And she would go round robin
for let's say 90 minutes or so
with four or five of the
children in the project.
And I remember guessing the card
correctly with 1 out of 52 odds
for the whole session.
Maybe getting one guess wrong.
Maybe I would guess five of
hearts versus five of diamonds.
So in addition to what I believe
my father probably reported
to the Department of Defense
that I was demonstrating special
abilities like levitation
and clairvoyance, I
think I was identified
as a pretty advanced psychic
at that time in the beginning
of that third grade school year.
I'd like to say that
the children
that were ultimately
selected for time travel
under Project Pegasus were
small mediums at large.
>> Regina: That's cute.
>> Bassagio: That very fall --
>> Regina: Small
mediums at large.
That's very cute.
But let's talk about your dad.
Now, what was your dad --
which defense contracting
firm was he working for?
>> Bassagio: My late
father, Raymond F. Bassagio,
was a special projects engineer
educated at LeHigh University
with a bachelor of science
in electrical engineering
who was then employed for the
Ralph M. Parsons Company during
those years of New York City.
And Parsons, of course, later
moved to Pasadena, California.
Parsons is every year
arguably either the first
or second largest process
engineering company often vying
with Bechtel Corporation
for that honor
and remains a leading
defense contractor.
It's just done some amazing
things around the world.
They built an entire city
called Yanbu in Saudi Arabia.
They were the defense contractor
that implemented the
MX missile system.
And what the public has not
been told, it's something
that was actually hinted
at on the Ralph M.
Parsons Company website
until fairly recently
when I began talking
about my experiences as the
son of a Parsons' engineer,
which is that the Ralph M.
Parsons Company gave the United
States government time travel.
>> Regina: A few
questions would arise here.
One of them is was
the technology
that they were using
developed by them,
or was it maybe reverse
engineered
from off planet cultures'
technologies?
>> Bassagio: It was
all of the above.
DARPA working with Parsons
and the CIA created an
intelligence funnel sometime I
believe in the mid 1960s.
Because they had
several leading forms
of time travel including
teleportation
and chronovision fully
operational by 1970.
We also know from an encounter
between my father and I
at the Lincoln speech site
in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
on November 19th of 1863 that
he had been time traveling
for several years before I began
to even be trained
in the program.
And so into that intelligence
funnel DARPA was placing all
of the above, everything
that would give the U.S.
government a time space
travel capability.
Those would include information
from ancient civilizations
on earth, the Babylonian,
Egyptian
and Sumerian experiments
with time travel;
extraterrestrial sources
from both downed UFO craft
and as a result of ET human
liaison which was actually part
of Project Pegasus; and then,
of course, the information
from foreign intelligence
sources
which would include
the Nazi German
and Soviet Russian
work in time travel.
And, of course, the work
of contemporary geniuses
like Nikola Tesla,
Fathers Ernetti and Gemelli
who were the Benedictine priests
that accidentally discovered
chronovision and then joined
with Enrico Fermi
in perfecting it.
So it was really a
kind of a catch plot
into which they were
throwing anything
that would enable
the U.S. government
to send people non-locally
in time space
or to propagate holograms
of past and future events.
>> Regina: Let's talk about
the actual experience then.
The first time you made a jump
so to speak from one time frame
to another you were
with your father.
>> Bassagio: Correct.
>> Regina: Which I would think
that there was some strategy
in that, there's a
certain comfort in that.
>> Bassagio: Right.
>> Regina: And your father had
already been before you, right?
>> Bassagio: Right.
They wanted to create a
cadre of young Americans
who would feel comfortable time
traveling in adulthood just
like a child that you involve
in scuba considers moving
between the terrestrial
and the aquatic environment
as just a part of everyday life.
They wanted to enable
us to be able to go
from the present timeline
that we're on to a past
or future timeline effortlessly
without any anxiety,
without any sense of something
extraordinary going on.
So I believe that that
was one of the motives
for my father beginning
to involve me
in teleportation at age six.
What happened is we left
our home in Morris Plains,
my dad shouting to my mom in the
house that, hon, I'm taking Andy
to the hardware store which was
not in Wood-Ridge, New Jersey.
>> Regina: That's a code.
>> Bassagio: Yeah, which was
in Florham Park, New Jersey.
And instead we drove up to the
Curtiss-Wright Aeronautical
Company facility in Wood-Ridge,
New Jersey, which also was
about 15 minutes from the house.
And we were cleared through
security there into building 68.
And in a small laboratory in
building 68 there was a device
in the front of the room.
It basically consisted of
two parenthesis shaped booms
that were about eight feet
high, maybe about ten feet apart
from each other on the floor.
And there was a technician
sitting
at a rudimentary
computer keyboard
and screen controlling the
device setting the time
space coordinates.
And then on the right side
of the machine there was a
power cord that was plugged
into the wall that really wasn't
much larger than you would use
to power a small
industrial device,
let's say an industrial
lathe or drill press.
And my dad explained that
when the technician turned
on the device we would
see a field of energy
that when we then just took
a run at that field of energy
and jumped through that
energy we would find ourselves
in a tunnel for several seconds.
The tunnel would close, and
then we would find ourselves
elsewhere in the country,
he said on a hilly area
somewhere else in the country.
So what the energy that
was being broadcast
between the two armatures
of the device,
these two parenthesis shaped
booms, was a form of energy
that Nikola Tesla discovered
that he called radiant energy
which is a form of energy
that is latent and pervasive
in the physical universe and
has among its attributes the
capacity to bend the
fabric of time space.
And so when the technician
turned on the device
at my dad's request, what I saw
between the two booms now
was energy being broadcast
between the two booms
that looked sort
of like water falling in
a public water sculpture.
And then when my dad had me
approach the energy field it
looked like raster on a
TV set, you know the black
and white snow pattern
on a TV set.
And I could see that at three
inch intervals there were little
squiggles of greenish-blue light
that were moving back and forth
across the field of raster
or radiant energy as it was
in opposite directions.
So there were literally
there was radiant energy,
and there was something
that was affecting
that field of radiant energy.
And we did a couple
of rehearsals.
And my dad grabbed my
hand, and on the count
of three I essentially leapt
into the U.S. time
space program.
Because when we did
so I found us moving
and then seemingly not moving
at all within the vortal tunnel
that the radiant energy
produced when it was punched
into a tunnel as a
result of the inertia
of us physically jumping
toward the field of energy.
It looked kind of like
the bluish-white tunnel
that people describe in
the near death experience.
But I noticed that when I turned
my head rapidly to the left
or right I could see holograms
of intervening events
on other time lines.
>> Regina: Oh, interesting.
>> Bassagio: Flashing by.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Bassagio: So it
was sort of like being
in an amusement park ride
where you had the sensation
of movement in the tunnel.
>> Regina: And you had
no sensation of fear
because this was
something your dad was there
and it was just a game almost?
>> Bassagio: Well, actually,
he said I looked terrified.
>> Regina: Really?
>> Bassagio: He later described
that I looked terrified.
I was always kind of --
>> Regina: Do you
remember feeling terrified?
>> Bassagio: I was
always kind of stiffening
up like a young Harry Truman
would in his photographs.
I was never really
comfortable with the experience
of going through the tunnel.
Because the strange thing is
that we were going very rapidly
but also seemingly not at all.
>> Regina: So let me
ask you what it felt
like in your physical body.
>> Bassagio: It felt like
non-movement movement.
It was paradoxical.
I sensed that -- I didn't feel
anything besides a slight sort
of electromagnetic stimulation.
And on the first jump I could
see my father's hair kind
of floating around as a result
of that electrostatic
energy being
in the tunnel affecting
something that could move,
something that could
be magnetized
and then it was free to move.
We couldn't bring
magnetic metals
in because they would
also discharge as a result
of the electrostatic
energy in the tunnel.
But it was just rather strange.
And sometimes when I would look
down at the black glassy floor-
like bottom that was almost like
there was nothing beneath us.
In fact, Dr. Robert Beckwith
was calling this form
of teleportation
levitated teleportation.
Because you were
essentially hovering
in a time space tunnel moving
elsewhere to another point
on the face of our planet.
But also essentially what
was going on is the rest
of the universe was being
wrapped around your ears.
I mean we were going, but
as a result of the theory
of relativity, the
performance of that premise,
that natural trait of
the physical universe,
we were really going nowhere and
hovering there in the laboratory
and being readjusted in time
space on the face of our planet
as a result of the rest of the
universe rushing past our heads.
So it was kind of like --
I've described how it was kind
of like going through the
Lincoln Tunnel without a car
at 10,000 miles per hour.
>> Regina: Okay, that's
a good description.
So what happened?
Where did you land
on the other side?
>> Bassagio: Well, what would
happen is we would see a small
little pinprick of
light in the distance,
and that would suddenly
get much larger,
and that was the tunnel
basically closing.
So we were seeing a little bit
of sunlight at the destination
which was always the State
Capital grounds of New Mexico
in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
And so the tunnel closed and
I found footfall in this sort
of hilly city that
my dad described.
You know the Santa Fe
State Capital ground
where you have kind of a
hodgepodge of elevations,
different eras of
buildings and so forth.
I later learned that they used
Santa Fe in a public arrival
like that because they
didn't want to inform anybody
at the Los Alamos National Labs
where there was a
Soviet spy ring
that we had achieved
physical teleportation.
And also they didn't want it
to become a military secret by,
for example, having us
arrive military bases.
So they had literally selected
a kind of a secluded area
of the State Capital complex
there in Santa Fe for us
to just pop into view.
>> Regina: So you and your dad
popped in, and I assume others,
but for the sake of
this conversation you
and your dad popped into
view in a public place
in front of a public building?
>> Bassagio: Yes.
And, in fact, not only was my
arrival just suddenly popped
into view were sometimes not
only witnessed, but when I went
on my first of three major fact
finding trips to New Mexico
to retrace my experiences
in Project Pegasus
I asked a waitress
at the Mine Shaft Tavern
Restaurant in Madrid,
New Mexico, and I said did
you ever hear any stories
when you were growing up here
of children suddenly popping
into view up at the
State Capital complex.
And she described that she had
been born in Santa Fe and grown
up in Madrid, but that when she
entered kindergarten in Santa Fe
at age five in 1974 which
was literally two years
after I left Project Pegasus
that she heard the stories
of children suddenly appearing
in the State Capital complex.
And I was able to say I
was one of those kids.
We were in a teleportation
project under DARPA,
and we were physically arriving.
And there was nothing
extraordinary --
well, there is something
extraordinary about it,
but it wasn't magic,
it was high technology.
>> Regina: So you
were actually jumping
in location but not in time.
You were jumping into
the same time frame?
>> Bassagio: Initially we
were arriving in real time.
So if we jumped through the
Tesla device in Wood-Ridge,
New Jersey at 10
a.m. and got there
in several seconds it
was 8 a.m. in Santa Fe.
You could see state office
workers coming to work
in the morning and so forth.
However, after doing many jumps
with my classmates who were
in the project in the summer of
1970, by fall of 1970 we noticed
that we would spend the
whole day in New Mexico
until night fell, but then
when we would arrive back
on the tarmac at
Curtiss-Wright in Wood-Ridge,
New Jersey it would be, let's
say, 10:30 in the morning
so that they were adjusting the
device to bring us back in time,
basically time travel to
the past when we arrived
on the east coast right back
at our point of embarkation
by Tesla teleportation.
So we asked some of
the facilitators there
at Curtiss-Wright are you
putting us back in time?
And they acknowledged
that they were.
And so we said there in
fall of 70 how far back
in the past can you send us?
And they said at this point
we're only sending you back 12
hours because you have
to jump back to the past
and still arrive at a time
after the development
of teleportation.
Because as we begin to do
this regularly we don't want
to strand you in the past.
And that was a limitation
of physical teleportation
via that device.
So another thing that
was occurring to control
for that displacement problem
was they were developing
chronovisors that would
propagate holograms of past
and future events where when the
hologram collapsed we were back
on the stage of the
device in real time.
And they were also
developing other forms
of physical time travel
which I was involved
in including a technology
called plasma confinement.
Where you were imbedded
in usually a past event
rather than a future one.
And with the future, of
course, you can jump back
through a stargate, through
a teleporter and come home
because time travel
technology defines the technical
infrastructure of the future.
>> Regina: The future, yes, yes.
>> Bassagio: But in the case of
all the time travel to the past
that we were doing they were
actively developing technologies
where you were essentially
imbedded in a past event,
and when that localized quantum
field effect wore off you then
spontaneously found
yourself back
in the laboratory in real time.
>> Regina: You went
both directions.
>> Bassagio: Correct.
>> Regina: Okay, let's first
talk about before we go
into the plasma confinement
center and all that that brings
to the story, jump forward.
What you would have been
used for, for example,
in a jump forward in time.
>> Bassagio: Well, in
a jump forward in time
when I was taking the stargate
from Sirius,
New Mexico in 1972 to a Project
Pegasus intelligence base
in the year 2045.
I was being used as an errand.
And people always ask me,
well, what was 2045 like?
And I say, well, it was about
taking a stargate to the plaza
of an industrial park, walking
into a beautiful emerald green
and tungsten steel building
that was all white inside
with all these houseplants,
meeting with several people
from the project
who were the age
that my great grandchildren
will be
or essentially the next couple
generations forward in time.
Meeting with them, being given
a little canister with microfilm
in it that contained
historical summaries of events
that will take place on our
time line between the 1970s
and the 2040s, being directed
to a teleportation unit
that was recessed invisibly into
the wall of a conference room,
and again taking a vortal
tunnel back to my point
of embarkation in
the past in 1972.
In fact, we were
arriving in the vicinity
of the microwave tower array
near the continental divide
north of Pagosa Springs,
Colorado,
the so called Lobo Overlook
site where there's an array
of microwave towers that are
now called basically Montauk
Southwest by individuals like
myself and the time travel team.
Because now it's
100 antennae, not 5.
But what we were told that those
microwave towers were doing was
pinging microwave
into the cosmos
so that the project personnel
in the future could identify
where the past was that we
needed to be teleported back to.
>> Regina: Interesting,
like a marker.
Okay, I'd be remiss if I
didn't ask you were you privy
to the information that was
transferred via the microfilm
or whatnot of events
to transpire
between that time and 2045?
>> Bassagio: No.
In fact, Project Pegasus was
primarily an intelligence
gathering project to enable --
as a result of the U.S.
government acquiring better
information about past events
and future events they hoped
to be able to perform
better contingency planning
for present and future events.
And so because it was
an intelligence project
under CIA ultimately, certain
intelligence reports were being
promulgated about what the U.S.
chrononaut corps was reporting
about the past and
future event scenarios
that they were sent to.
I didn't have a need to know
what was on that microfilm.
We were shown during
out training
that those tiny little
ChapStick sized canisters had
about 600 feet of
microwave in them.
And that trainer basically took
that 600 feet out and dropped it
at his feet and showed us how
much information we were taking
back to the present.
>> Regina: What were
you able to glean just
from your surroundings
and you were able
to observe of that time?
>> Bassagio: Well, because
I was my father's son,
and he was essentially quantum
displaced for eight years
in New Mexico, so that when he
died chronologically at age 66
in 1990 he was actually
74 biologically,
where they were jumping him to
New Mexico, he was living there
for days, weeks,
months and even years
and then being jumped back--
>> Regina: Did he
disappear from your life
for those periods of time?
>> Bassagio: No, no because
they were just like --
>> Regina: It was time
collapse, I mean yeah.
>> Bassagio: They were
collapsing the time loops
by having us stay in New Mexico,
and then they would jump us
back not just to New Jersey
but New Jersey on the day
we had originally jumped.
So that we were all
basically participating
in these secret time loops that
were actually being collapsed.
>> Regina: So let's
talk about 2045
for a second before we move on.
Can you tell us about
what you --
>> Bassagio: Well, 2045,
I mean there is a 2045.
The world is not
destroyed by then.
And in that location
in the American Southwest
the people looked healthy.
The young people looked
taller and thinner.
I think we're actually
seeing that in society.
Some of today's young
people look
at lot more spindly
physiologically
than previous generations.
There's a different look.
I call it the avatar
effect of better prenatal
and neonatal care, better
nutrition, the elimination
of toxic substances
from our environment,
the use of positive
energies to promote wellness
in the next generation.
Our grandchildren's general
is going to be healthier.
The environment looked
a little wetter
in the American Southwest.
We were never told where
they were sending us.
But if we were to presuppose it
was some relatively uninhabited
area outside of a city in the
southwest, a Santa Fe, a Tucson,
a Flagstaff, it seemed a
little bit more temperate
than I had encountered in
the American Southwest.
>> Regina: Interesting because
it certainly has been wetter
in the last couple of
years interestingly.
>> Bassagio: Yeah, it
seemed a little bit closer
to the New Jersey I had grown up
in, a little bit more temperate
and a little bit more rain.
And as a result of bringing
that information back I know
that Project Pegasus was
furnishing the U.S. Department
of Defense with a
history of the future.
But I only learned about what
some of those events were
that they knew of as a result
of the time space program,
as a result of being my father's
son and spending so much time
with him in New Mexico
before jumping back.
And also going so far
down the rabbit hole
that there would even
be a reason for me
to be quantum displaced in New
Mexico and in my dad's company.
Where I frequently went to lunch
and dinner with his colleagues,
typically at the La Hacienda
or La Placita Restaurants
which were then and to some
extent still are the most
favorite Mexican restaurants
in all of New Mexico.
So if there were
distinguished officials there
from Washington frequently we
would have these group dinners
at those restaurants in
Old Town Albuquerque.
And what I learned is
that they were aware
of specific events
and conditions.
They included, let's see from
memory here that I can recall,
they knew about the
resignation of President Nixon
in a scandal called Watergate.
>> Regina: And this was a
few years prior to the event.
>> Bassagio: Yes.
They knew about the
emergence of the internet.
In fact, I listened to John
McCone, a former director
of the Central Intelligence
Agency at one
of those restaurants, describe
to my father what the internet.
I remember how he
said, well Ray,
the internet is the fulfillment
of Vannevar Bush's
primary fundamental.
It's a global information
network.
And the individual
communicating on that network
of people throughout the world
that they want to communicate
with sits at a keyboard
like the rudimentary ones
that have already emerged in
our electronic typewriters,
and they look at a simple
video display terminal.
And by doing so they can
communicate with anybody
in the world who is on
the system at that time.
And then they started talking
about the stems, the suffixes
and the destinations,
dot com, dot net,
dot info, dot edu and so forth.
And my dad asked John McCone who
literally had been the director
of Central Intelligence for
four years of the early 60s,
four very eventful
years from 1960
to 64 right before
essentially being one of sort
of the pipe smokers,
one of the scholars
in the intelligence community
who were both promulgating
and reading the intelligence
reports about the past
and future that resulted from
the debriefings of individuals
like me who they were sending
to the past and future.
And my dad said, well, what
about this dot com suffix.
And John Alexander McCone,
everybody was calling him Alec
or Alex, all of the
project people I remember,
and he was actually
smoking a pipe.
And he said to my dad, well,
Ray that's just a
destination on the system.
It just means communication.
And my dad got up from
the table and said,
well, how do we know that?
Maybe it means the commies
have taken over by then.
So I think that anecdote kind
of puts an insight into the fact
that as a result of starting to
send children and adults to past
and future events
and promulgating these
one-off holograms of past
and future events, the
project principles were
by no means omniscient about,
for example, what
the future held.
But in addition to the Nixon
resignation and the internet,
9/11 was openly discussed in
front of me at different meals
that we took with
the project people.
>> Regina: And this
was in the 60s?
>> Bassagio: This
would be early 70s.
>> Regina: Early 70s.
>> Bassagio: In fact,
my dad and I --
well, my father was called
down to the Aerojet
Corporation facility
that then existed
immediately adjacent
to the New Mexico Institute
of Science and Technology
and Socorro, New Mexico.
And we viewed about
a 20 second film loop
that had been retrieved from
the future, I don't know
by what means, of one of
the planes hitting one
of the Twin Towers on 9/11.
And then there were times
when we would be at a meal,
particularly lunchtime,
and some of the individuals
who were being let into fewer
of the secrets about the future
that the project was collecting,
would sort of inveigh upon
my dad to reveal what he knew
as one of the senior
project people.
And so the 9/11 event was
discussed openly in my presence
in the early 70s when I was
a child on Project Pegasus.
I know they knew about
the emergence of AIDS,
HIV/AIDS as at least a
potentially venereally
transmitted disease,
a new public disease.
I know that they knew about
widespread cell phone use.
Because in a later
discussion when I was no longer
on the project my dad said,
well, mobile phones are going
to become very popular.
And I said how did
you learn that?
And he said, well, we would just
tune in an ordinary street scene
in any major city in the
country and we saw all of you
in the future walking
around with these
little walkie talkies.
So they knew about the fact that
the world would be connected
with handheld communication
devices and that
that would speed human progress
and some basic events like that.
They were actively identifying
and briefing future presidents
of their destinies as president.
I remember one lunch that
the Bush family was out,
both George H.W. Bush, his wife,
Barbara, and son George W. Bush,
and George W. Bush was
going around to the tables
that the project people
were at, and he said right
in my face basically have you
heard my daddy and I are going
to be president, ha, ha, ha, ha.
So here we had the
Bush family aware.
>> Regina: And he
was a kid still.
>> Bassagio: He was
about 24, 25.
I must have been
about 9, 10 years old.
>> Regina: And his
dad hasn't come
into that position then yet.
>> Bassagio: So his father
had run for Senate in Texas
in the late 60s but had not
yet run for the House seat
in Houston at that time and
had not yet served as director
of Central Intelligence.
Then there was another lunch
where a young Georgetown student
named William Clinton was
present sitting right
next to me.
And he apparently had just been
told of his destiny as president
because after the
introductions were told --
actually let me just
say that sitting next
to Mr. Clinton was the
project administrator
of Project Pegasus,
Harold M. Agnew,
one of the Manhattan Project
physicists who was then by them
or would be destined to become
the director of Los Alamos Labs.
Dr. Iben Browning, the director
of science and technology
for CIA was at that lunch.
And then my father and his
colleague Joseph Connison
from Parsons,
and I was sitting
over on Mr. Clinton's right.
And one of the comments --
I remember getting
a very good vibe
from Bill Clinton
as a young man.
I felt that he was good
natured, intelligent
and had a great sense of humor.
He was very sort of buoyant and
I could pick that up as a child.
And I remember that
he said, well, fellas,
I know that you all work for
the atomic research community,
and I know that you do
things like the design
of more effective nuclear
weapons all the time,
but sometimes, you know, when
you tell me this I think,
you know, me Bill Clinton,
President of the United States,
I mean, fellas, that
dog don't hunt.
So this was a young Bill
Clinton probably not yet out
of Georgetown grappling with
his destiny as President
of the United States, Commander
in Chief of the U.S. Military,
Chief Executive and leader
of the free world as it were.
The same kind of shocking
information that had been given
to Mr. Bush, both Bushes.
>> Regina: Both Bushes,
yes, interesting.
>> Bassagio: So on the threshold
of playing God and trying
to influence the future as a
result of gathering information
about the past as it really
happened and the future
as it was destined to happen,
they clearly made a decision
to push the advantage
a little bit
and brief future presidents
of their destinies.
And I was even briefed of my
future presidential destiny
in the summer of 1980 when I
was 19 years old going on 20.
So the American people
deserve to know this
because surely the framers
of the U.S. Constitution
could not anticipate their
constitutional framework for
selecting their president
to have been undermined
by time travel.
But it has to.
>> Regina: Yeah, no kidding.
Okay. And that I find a really
fascinating part of your work.
So now that we've kind of looked
at the time travel part straight
up I want to go into the
plasma confinement center
and what that was about.
Because now we're bringing the
subject of radiation, time slips
and all kinds of things in
and a particular feeling
that we talked about off camera
that I've been very
curious about.
>> Bassagio: Right.
The plasma confinement
chamber is potentially the most
publically significant
time travel technology
that I was exposed to during
those years and time travel
to the past in because of its
implications about the threat
of time slipping as a result
of radioactive plasma.
So it was essentially --
the plasma confinement chamber
was essentially a lucite box
inside of a brick building
that's still there.
I just recently visited
Morristown and Morris Plains
and East Hanover, New Jersey
where these labs were,
Wood-Ridge, New Jersey where
the teleportation unit was.
And that brick building is still
at the corner of School Avenue
and Ridgedale Avenue in
East Hanover, New Jersey.
They built a Presbyterian
church frontage on the front
of that brick building and
then placed a nursery school
in that brick building
behind the church.
Working there was Dr.
Sterling Colgate, the President
of the New Mexico's
Science and Technology
where we had seen the footage
of 9/11 30 years in the future.
And the plasma confinement
chamber was maybe about the size
of half of a tennis court.
If you just drew a line
through the medial axis
of a conventional tennis court
and maybe about 15 feet high.
So sort of like a squash court.
And there was a blue line on
the floor that would emit plasma
under confinement, radioactive
plasma into the end of this box.
And we knew that
once we walked past
that blue line we could
literally feel a dropping
sensation and violently
wormhole for about 30 seconds
and find ourselves
physically in a past event.
And I was sent to
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
on the day Abraham Lincoln
gave the Gettysburg Address
which was November 19th of
1863 via that methodology.
And what we've been talking
about relative to time slips is
that there's evidence
that both natural releases
and accidental industrial
releases or negligent releases
of radioactive plasma have
been causing the time slips
that different individuals
have been experiencing.
For example, the famous
Montelimar, France time slip
in which two British
couples, the Gisbys
and the Simpsons drove into
Montelimar, France on their way
to a holiday in Nice
in the south of France
and discovered some
unusual things at a bed
and breakfast in Montelimar.
Such as the fact that their
windows on the second floor
of that hotel didn't have any
glass, they had wooden shutters.
The French waitress down in
the tavern didn't recognize the
modern French word for motorway.
One of the Britains
involved was fluent in French
and so was conversing with her.
And she was confused
about what he meant
by the modern French
term for motorway.
They paid for their
breakfast that next morning
with four pence which would
just be literally pennies
for breakfast in a
French bed and breakfast.
>> Regina: Absolutely,
yeah, it's like 4 cents.
>> Bassagio: It should be
several hundred franks.
And also as they were leaving
two French gendarmes walked
into the tavern wearing French
period clothing as policemen
from 100 years in the past.
So they went on their
vacation, talked about how weird
that bed and breakfast was.
And they said let's go
back to it on the way back
to the channel to
get back to England.
And they went down the
same street, same alleyway,
there was the same
circus poster on the wall
but no bed and breakfast.
It was an empty lot.
So, again, as a result of being
fluid in French they were able
to converse with
the locals there.
And they asked the neighbors
was there anything ever
here recently.
They said no, no.
Well, was there anything
there historically.
They said, yes, there was kind
of a tavern and a hotel there
where you could take a
meal on the ground floor
and then get a room for the
night on the upper floor.
And they said, well,
when was it torn down?
And they said sometime
in the 1890s.
Jenny Randles tells a brilliant
telling of this as a result
of her work with the
Gisbys and the Simpsons.
>> Regina: And the
book Time Storms.
>> Bassagio: Yes, if I'm
not mistaken she wrote
in a very fascinating way
in her book Time Storms
which I would recommend
to your viewers.
It's a brilliant work.
And so I investigated
the Montelimar time slip
because I was realizing, well
wait a minute, Dr. Colgate
and my father who had a few
technicians literally physically
imbedded me in Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania
in 1863 utilizing a form
of radioactive plasma.
I think I should
investigate Montelimar to see
if there was any radioactive
plasma present when the Gisbys
and Simpsons had their
famous time slip.
Well, there was.
In fact, in the week before
that time slip I discovered,
and in fact I haven't even
consulted Jenny Randles
about this discovery,
that the Montelimar,
France civilian nuclear plant,
which is the largest civilian
nuclear plant in all of France,
released the largest
amount of radioactive plasma
that has ever been
released in an accidental
or negligent nuclear
accident in all of France.
And that radioactive plasma
was covering the whole town
when the Gisbys and
Simpsons rode
in in their vehicle
into Montelimar.
So how can you not
conclude if independent
of that I've described being
sent to Gettysburg in 1863
by a radioactive plasma, how
can we not account for that,
that that was probably the
cause or is the cause of some
of these accidental time slips.
>> Regina: Obviously a lot
more that we need to know
about the nature of radiation.
But what I'm wondering about is
they didn't feel the difference
within their own being.
They're just going along on
their journey, and they end
up back in time at a place
that no longer exists.
When you were sent through
the particular device,
the plasma confinement device,
you experienced something
entirely different.
And we talked about
this off camera,
the feeling, the body feeling of
it.
>> Bassagio: Right.
On the way there I found
myself -- when the floor --
it felt like the floor was
falling out from beneath just
as my father had described.
When I got inside this
opalescent swirling pattern
of plasma with pastel
colors I literally fell
through the floor.
And I found myself tumbling
through a cascading
series of wormholes.
And then I suddenly was
tumbled out on the ground
on the southern side of
Mummisburg Road
which went from the northwest
of Washington Street.
And my dad had instructed
me to just start walking
and ask the first person
that I saw, hey friend,
which way to Gettysburg.
And a young Union
soldier pointed
in the direction
where I was walking.
I then made the first right as
my father described and walked
down Washington Street,
and then made a hard left
and went northeast
on the northern pike
of Emmitsburg Road.
And that's where John Lawrence
Burns the Gettysburg cobbler
and town constable equipped me
with the huge oversized shoes
that I've seen in the
Josephine Cobb image of Lincoln
at Gettysburg and the
jacket and the hat.
Because my hat, both shoes and
one sock had been wrenched off
in this violent cascading
pattern of wormholes
that literally deposited
me north of the town
of Gettysburg on
November 19, 1863.
>> Regina: What did it
feel like inside your body.
>> Bassagio: I felt hot as if
my temperature had been raised.
I smelled ozone.
I was confused momentarily.
This was a pretty
violent arrival.
Most of my common Tesla
teleportation to New Mexico
or back to New Jersey was
relatively uneventful and not
that stressful, except one
time when I had to jump --
where I had been
accidentally sent
to 1991 I literally
hit the tarmac in 1971
when I jumped back
from Sandia back
to Curtiss-Wright in
that particular sort
of emergency extraction
from the future.
But usually it was
much less violent
than this plasma
confinement base.
>> Regina: And you
were explaining how --
and I was asking about it
because I had had an experience
where I had been experimenting
with another person,
and we did this repeatedly,
and it was like blowing apart
into trillions of
particles of light that were
so electrified it was
almost like painful.
It was like a chill
at the center of you.
>> Bassagio: Right.
Now, the paradox of
that particular form
of time travel is that right
after Mathew Brady took
that photograph of the
citizens of Gettysburg arriving
to hear President Lincoln give
a speech, November 19, 1863,
and I'm standing there in the
foreground of that photograph.
Within seconds, literally within
minutes of Lincoln arriving
on the dias and hearing this
boisterous cheer of approval
and congratulations going up,
of course we had turned
the Civil War four months
previously, the Union had
in the Battle of Gettysburg,
possibly Fredericksburg
previously,
but clearly Abraham Lincoln
was a popular president
in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
that day.
So I heard the cheer go up.
And I was standing with
my back to the dias
because I had gathered
too much attention
to myself near the dias.
And so basically my
training was triggered,
and I walked away
from that area.
And I stood with my right
foot to the opposite direction
from where Lincoln would be
striding on the top of the dias,
and my left foot forward so
that my huge shoes would not be
noticed until I evanesced
is the term I've been using.
>> Regina: Evanesced,
that feeling.
>> Bassagio: I didn't
wormhole back to the present.
What happened is that localized
quantum field effect wore off,
and I felt exactly
as you described.
It was as if I was in a
massive Kundalini sensation.
>> Regina: Yup.
>> Bassagio: In which
every molecule
of my body had disintegrated --
>> Regina: Exactly.
>> Bassagio: -- but stayed in
like a broad spherical pattern
that was both heavy, and
the Kundalini sensation was
so profound that it was
almost painful to withstand.
>> Regina: That's
what I experienced.
It was very painful,
but then coalesced back
to something more familiar
when it got to its destination,
which in my case was
a point of light.
>> Bassagio: Right.
Back in the plasma confinement
chamber in East Hanover
in Spring of 1972, I don't
know what day exactly
but it was spring, a
sunny day in spring of 72
in East Hanover back
in New Jersey,
I felt myself being condensed
back into human form.
And I was fine except I was
wearing these
civilian shoes.
>> Regina: Very famous photo.
Okay, now this takes us to
another historical meeting
that you've kind of pieced
together through time.
And that was you went back
to a time where you met
with George Washington.
>> Bassagio: Right.
And let me just say in
prescript about these claims
of seeing images of the
crucifixion of Jesus
of Nazareth, briefing General
George Washington in August
of 1776 via chronovision,
and then being sent
to the Gettysburg
address by Abraham Lincoln
by plasma confinement --
>> Regina: These were
different technologies, too.
>> Bassagio: Well, yeah.
We were not only working
with different technologies,
but there was a programmatic
reason to select Jesus,
Washington and Lincoln, because
they were individuals in history
that hundreds of
books and dozens
of source material was available
to compare what history
had recorded
about these three
prone individuals
and what our U.S.
chrononaut corps would report
after seeing an event or
literally interacting with them
at least in the case
of my interaction
with General Washington
utilizing the different forms
of time travel that
were developing.
So I'm not just relying
on three famous personages
to cobble together a tall tale.
The were literally the
people that I saw or visited.
>> Regina: They were
strategic targets.
>> Bassagio: Yeah,
because we had a lot
to compare what we
were finding against.
I mean even by 1972 there had
been hundreds of histories
of the civil war and dozens and
dozens and dozens of biographies
of Lincoln and the
Gettysburg Address.
So they had selected
these individuals
for sound programmatic reasons.
And I had forms of contact
with all three of them,
seeing, conversing with them.
And, again, I was supposed
to see Abraham Lincoln give
the Gettysburg Address.
I went back to East Hanover.
I evanesced back.
>> Regina: You blew apart and
evanesced back, yeah.
>> Bassagio: Shortly after
he strode to the dias.
>> Regina: So what
was Washington
like from your perspective then?
>> Bassagio: Well, they put
us down in the encampment
above New York Harbor,
and we found his tent.
In fact, one of the other child
chrononauts came over to me
and said General George
Washington is in that tent.
And I had great trepidation.
I mean because just like my fear
of seeing Lincoln give
the Gettysburg Address --
>> Regina: Now, how
old were you then?
>> Bassagio: Let's see
that was in fall of 70
so I had just turned nine having
been born in September of 61.
And I had a wave of trepidation,
some of that Bart Simpson kind
of childhood fear crept in.
And I thought, okay, but I was
the team leader of blue team.
But also I had a
very superb memory.
They had identified that as one
of my God given gifts
as it were.
And so I had to memorize
this debriefing document
to literally inform
George Washington
of what his destiny was and of
the pressing necessity for him
to retreat his troops from
New York Harbor immediately.
And so I walked in and he
was there sort of smiling.
And then he walked out
and then he came back in.
And he indicted that we should
take a seat on the divan
that was there, it was
kind of a backless sofa.
He was sitting in a plush chair.
Washington's tent above New
York Harbor had been sort of --
was outfitted with elegant
furniture and elegant carpet.
Canteens and water bags
hanging from the struts
that held up the tent.
He was in his full dress
uniform of blue and gold.
And the best way I can
describe George Washington
that really doesn't show up
in the statues of Washington,
his paintings and so forth is
he was a study in opposites.
He was a commanding figure
but extremely relaxed.
He was sagacious and
intelligent but also witty.
He was confident and has
clear physical prowess.
Washington was 44 when I met
him via chronovision by the way,
so he was there in the
flesh, and I was there
in a physio virtual way via
one of the chronovisors.
So I'm there hologrammatically,
and he's there living
his life in the flesh.
And the term that I've
come up with to sort
of describe his basic
personality was he was kind
of relating to us in
this bemused swagger.
>> Regina: Did he understand
what he was interfacing with?
>> Bassagio: No.
>> Regina: No.
>> Bassagio: He said, so
surely lads you must be angels.
And I said, no sir, we're
time travelers from 1970.
And he said time travelers,
well, what do you mean?
Do you mean an angel who comes
from heaven to impart a message
to some human being in
need of the information?
And, in fact, he
sounded very much
like Prince Charles does today.
He was speaking the
King's English.
Because before, a month
earlier on July 4th of 1776,
he had been an English
gentleman in a British colony.
And when we told him
we were time travelers
from the future he cupped
his hand kind of like this,
and over his shoulder in
the chair I don't know
who is Alexander Hamilton,
but again Alexander comes up
and he said, Alec,
these lads say
that they're time travelers
from our own future.
Tell me, have you ever
heard such a thing?
And his young page,
presumably Alexander Hamilton,
said, no sir, I haven't.
He said something like that
sounds like a tall drink
of water, general, or
something like that.
So he looks at us again and
says, well, what does this mean?
And I said, well sir,
200 years into the future
of the government that
you're going to create
by winning this Revolutionary
War that you're prosecuting,
our government will
have developed --
the government that you're
going to found is going
to develop technologies that
will enable it to put people
into past or future events.
And they've sent us to
this event right here, sir,
via a device called
a chronovisor
where they create a field
of light, and when we stand
in that light when
the light is brought
down around us they
tuned in this event
with that machine
and here we are.
And he said, well, why
have they sent you?
And then I went into my speech
about how I've been instructed
to tell you, General Washington,
that you're going to win the war
that you're presently
prosecuting.
That you will be the first
president of that country
after operating for 13 years
under the articles
of confederation.
You will then become the
President of the United States.
You will be regarded in history
as the father of your country.
The United States of America
which is what the country will
be called will be regarded
as the greatest country in
the history of civilization.
Its capital city, in fact,
will be named Washington
in honor of you, sir.
But that none of these
propitious things will happen
unless you retreat your troops
from New York Harbor
immediately.
And he said, well, I'm
a general waging a war
and you're telling me you're a
time traveler from the future.
>> Regina: A kid.
>> Bassagio: And you're,
what, 9 years old Andrew?
Because we had introduce
ourselves.
And I said, yes, general,
that's what I'm telling you
and that's why I've
been sent here.
And he goes, well, I'm sorry
but you're just going
to have to prove it.
And what I'd been given
is an eight and a half
by eleven inch sheet of paper
that had a two dimensional
hologram on it.
Like when hologram was
publically introduced
in the 1970s let's say on a
baseball cover or the cover
of the National Geographic.
And it featured a patriotic
symbol of an eagle landing
on an American crest, a red,
white and blue crest with stars.
But it was all holographic.
You could see the depth
of the eagle, its talons
and so forth, its wings.
And I handed it to Washington,
and I said surely, sir,
this artifact did not
originate in your time.
Based on where printing is
in the age of Washington
as this age shall become
known that technology,
that printing technology
doesn't exist yet,
so we must be from your future.
And he said, well, this is
certainly something I must show
Ben Franklin, he would
be fascinated by this.
And he goes, well
Andrew, I agree with you.
And then he thought for
a second, and he stood
up abruptly, and he said not
even looking at us, he's looking
at the door of his tent,
the opening of his tent,
he said I shall order
the retreat immediately.
And he left the tent, and that's
the last that I saw Washington.
We persisted there for
several hours even to nightfall
as Washington's, I think
it was his major regiment,
then retreated there
up to Brooklyn Heights
on their way to Manhattan.
And I think it was 400 Maryland
sharpshooters were covering
their retreat as
essentially the major part
of the revolutionary army
retreated and was not destroyed
by canon fire from the
myriad of British vessels
that were lurking out
in New York Harbor.
So people have asked
me how did that work?
Did the event happen and
then you were born in 1961
and you were placed in Project
Pegasus and you went back
and intervened so that a
second past event occurred
and you then changed
history on that time line?
And the answer to that is no.
I was sent back -- I mean the
sine qua non the essential thing
of time travel is that you
visit the actual past or future.
So what happened is that
I had intervened there
and convinced Washington to
retreat from New York Harbor.
But then later in time
I provided the causation
for that effect.
In other words I went ultimately
in the future back to the past
and retrocausally caused
George Washington to make
that decision in real time.
So in the same way that the
plasma confinement chamber sent
me to Gettysburg on the day
the first time and only time
that Lincoln gave that address
on our time line, I was sent
and advised Washington to
retreat from New York Harbor
on the day that he
made that decision.
I literally briefed him from
the U.S. government 200 years
in the future.
>> Regina: Again, a very
strategic positioning
of yourself and the
others that went with you.
Do you remember who went with
you?
>> Bassagio: Well, I think
although I was captain
of our team of 10, we were
14 teams of 10 children,
140 children nationally involved
in time traveling
for Project Pegasus.
One lost his feet during
one jump to Santa Fe.
A girl went blind looking at one
of the crystal arrays
producing the hologram
in one of the chronovisors.
One of our colleagues is now
dead after reaching 700 pounds
as a result of metabolic
disruption
from his project activities.
But I was the captain
of the blue team,
but I think I was
really sent just
because I had a very
good memory.
Maybe some past life
information was used
because I have past
life memories
of being Dr. Thomas Bond
who was the chief physician
of the Revolutionary Army.
>> Regina: So maybe you had a
resonance already with that era
and those individuals?
>> Bassagio: Well, since we know
from CIA people who have told me
to my face that the Central
Intelligence Agency can
literally print a
list of who you were
in the past utilizing means
that may involve time travel
or some other capability that
they have to literally read
who we were in past lives.
I've had profound past life
memories of being somebody
who clearly would have
had personal contact
with General Washington
during the Revolution.
Because Dr. Thomas Bond was a
Philadelphia based physician
who literally assembled
the medical response
to the battlefield
casualties that were occasioned
by our prosecution of
the Revolutionary War.
>> Regina: So when a lot
of people hear this they say
how do you know it's your
own memory?
How do you know?
With all of this time
travel, with jumping.
With going back through
these various chambers
holographically, physically
and so forth how do you
know what's a real memory?
How do you distinguish it?
>> Bassagio: Right.
Well, my response to that is I
think that's a valid question.
I've never purported my
information and said,
well, you must believe me.
All I'm doing is this happened,
I'm telling the truth,
take it or leave it.
There's nothing I can
do to bend your arm
to make somebody believe
that this is true.
It is true.
The way that I answer that
is, look, all human experience
of either an ordinary or
a non-ordinary nature,
your last trip to
McDonald's, could have resulted
from non-ordinary causation.
Being drugged, being
mind controlled,
being hit on the head, having
a fever, having been poisoned
by something accidentally
from a food or what have you.
And my response to that is that
years later my involvement,
for example, was
corroborated by my own father.
Imagine you're sitting with one
of your parents in your sofa
in your residence ten years
after doing something,
and your mom or dad are talking
about how it actually happened
in a dispassionate way, just in
an ordinary family conversation.
Many of the things I did in
Project Pegasus were reviewed
by my father between 1986
and his death in 1990.
We had many heart to hearts
about what we done
together on Project Pegasus.
And that was in an environment
which I could not have been
under mind control because I was
interacting with my own father.
I never had any history
of alcohol
or recreational drug abuse.
He knew he was nearing his
death from heart disease.
He probably remembered the
actual year of his death
from reading my book
in the early 70s.
And he asked me shortly
before his death
to convene a family meeting
and then tell everything we
did together in Project Pegasus
or separately and then
tell the entire world.
So my father was motivated as
a Ralph M. Parsons engineer
who had been on an
extraordinary project
where astonishing
things were achieved
by our profoundly creative
American civilization.
That he wanted the
truth to be told.
And I also later had my
involvement corroborated
by other people.
I had a conversation
with, again,
his colleague Joe
Connison at Parsons.
And he listened for a half hour
denying that the teleporters
or chronovisors I was
describing existed for example.
And then when he asked me,
well, what am I going to do
with this information, and I
stated I was going to go public
and ultimately write a book and
try to work with film producers
to have the book told
as a motion picture,
this is a direct quote
from a Ralph M. Parsons
Company engineer.
He said a book, a movie,
nobody on the outside knows
about that stuff,
namely the derivation
of time travel technologies.
Dr. Gene Marie Arrigo who
is an ethicist for the CIA
and the U.S. military confirmed
very early in interacting
with me about dealing with the
posttraumatic stress of being
in such trying experiences as a
child and networking effectively
within the intelligence
community and military
and among project people,
engineers and so forth.
She was helping me
in the early 2000
to really map what
had happened to me.
He said, Andy, just stop looking
for complex explanations.
You were in all that far
out quantum axis stuff
in the early 70s.
>> Regina: And it's true in your
own experience, in your body,
your emotions, your mind.
It is your experience.
>> Bassagio: When you described
essentially your unique form
of sort of out of body
experience during that event.
>> Regina: Yeah, that
blowing apart thing.
>> Bassagio: That expansion.
>> Regina: That was real.
>> Bassagio: I know
exactly what you felt.
You felt as if you were both
more expanded and heavier.
And the Kundalini,
the stimulation
of the central nervous
system was almost painful.
>> Regina: It was painful, yeah.
>> Bassagio: That's
exactly what I experienced
when I came back to the --
>> Regina: So that's
your experience.
>> Bassagio: So I've
gone to New Mexico
and identified small
pieces of local folklore
in Old Town Albuquerque
that nobody but somebody
who would have spent
time there would know.
And my four older siblings are
still alive and could testify
to the fact that, no,
Andrew was with us
in our Chevy station wagon when
we crossed southern New Mexico
in November of 1972 after
Parsons had moved to Los Angeles
from New York City on
its way to Pasadena.
And there would have been no
reason for him to walk to,
drive, take a plane, train
or automobile to New Mexico.
It didn't happen.
So they would deny that I'd
ever been in New Mexico.
How then am I full of all these
local folkloric kind of stories
from Old Town Albuquerque,
literally the area there
near the restaurants
and the San Filipe
De Neri Church there.
That long time friends
of my father had lived
there their whole lives.
I became basically a
child who was being raised
in two different
realities of the verdant,
the green grassy suburb of New
Jersey where our house was,
and then taking these periodic
trips via teleportation
to New Mexico.
>> Regina: And the reality is
that the quantum sciences
are validating that time
and space is not what we
think, that time is not linear.
So if we can embrace this notion
scientifically then why can't we
embrace it experientially?
>> Bassagio: Right.
And, in fact, the fact that
my beliefs that I had been
in the project were
not internal or driven
by some other non-experiential
process was evident in things
like talking to the
waitress in Madrid
who said, sure, in 1974 --
>> Regina: Right, exactly, yeah,
those kids were jumping through.
>> Bassagio: I heard in
kindergarten that residents
of Santa Fe were seeing
children suddenly appear
in the State Capital complex.
I mean I have hundreds of
confirmations like that.
>> Regina: So we only have
a couple minutes left now.
What do you think
was the greatest,
most disconcerting
experience or remembrance
of what had happened
during all of this?
>> Bassagio: Well, I have to
say it was literally seeing one
of my same age peer lose
his feet when he arrived
in an abandoned junior high
school grounds in Santa Fe,
not the State Capital complex.
They were often using
different abandoned school sites
to house the time travel
technology for us to arrive
in that year or what have you.
And what happened was he
suddenly materialized --
or the vortal tunnel closed --
>> Regina: Before his
feet were through?
>> Bassagio: Well,
before his feet were
through because he arrived
standing in three inches
of water that had collected
in the basement of
a public fountain.
And hence the specific gravity
of the water impeded the arrival
of his feet below the
middle of his ankles.
>> Regina: Did he
have to go the rest
of his life then, what, how?
>> Bassagio: Well, he
basically slid off his ankles
as if they had been
passed through a bandsaw
through the middle of the ankle.
>> Regina: Did he live the rest
of his life with prosthetics or?
>> Bassagio: The accident
cauterized the wound
so he wasn't bleeding to death.
I didn't see him tumble
off his ankles essentially,
slide off his ankles.
But I did see him on the ground.
There was already a team leader
holding him to the ground
so he wouldn't be
further injured.
But it disconcerts
me to this day
that he was yelling
my feet, my feet.
I'm only nine years old, what am
I going to do without any feet?
That was pretty horrific
to witness that accident.
>> Regina: And then we
only have a minute left.
What was the more
glorious part about this?
>> Bassagio: I have to say
that meeting General
Washington was the high point
because he was truly
larger than life.
He was this dynamic, active,
positive, charismatic presence,
and it's easy to see how he
could have been the principle
founder of a great nation.
He was a superlative
human being.
He scintillated with
positive energy
that almost made him look
illuminated physically.
>> Regina: Many say he
was sort of at the base
of the brotherhood and of the
Freemasons in a higher order.
>> Bassagio: Well,
different generations
of Freemasons have done
things for good or ill.
>> Regina: That's right.
>> Bassagio: I think
he was definitely
on the side of the light.
And I would just consider
the great accomplishments
of the United Stated
to say that.
But he was just simply an
astonishing human being.
And when I look back at what
I've witnessed as a result
of interacting with him, and
then as a history buff realize
that I also played that
kind of informing role
in an important event in the
revolution and the becoming
of the United States of America
I feel very proud that I able
to be given that
cosmic privilege
to interact with
him in that way.
>> Regina: Well, Andrew,
there are no words
for the life you've led.
I thank you very much
for sharing them with us.
>> Bassagio: Thank
you for having me.
>> Regina: Just amazing
experiences.
>> Bassagio: Thank you.
>> Regina: And amazing life.
>> Bassagio: Thank you, Regina.
>> Regina: If there's one
big takeaway here besides the
incredible technology
on the planet it is
that the human mind is for more
expansive than we have imagined.
It is, in fact, our birthright
to see beyond time and space
if we choose to activate that.
Until next time thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]